jQuery is a javascript library.
jQuery greatly simplifies javascript Programming.
jQuery is easy to learn.

jQuery is a lightweight, "write less, do more", javascript library.
The purpose of jQuery is to make it much easier to use javascript on your website.

jQuery also simplifies a lot of the complicated thing from javascript, like AJAX calls and DOM manipulation.

Features: 
HTML/DOm manipulation
CSS manipulation
HTML event methods
Effects and animations
AJAX 
utilities


adding JQuery 
2 methods are There

1/Download JQuery library
2/using CDN Link

JQuery Syntax

$(selector).action()
$-sign to define/access jQuery

$(this)-current element
$("p")-tag p
$(".test")-class test
$("#kill")-id kill

The Document Ready event

$(document).ready(function(){
    jquery method....
})

shortcut method
$(function(){
    
})

$("*")-select all elements
$("p.intro")-select the current HTML element
$("p:first")-slects all <p> elements with class="intro"
$("ul li:first-child")-selcts the first <li> element of every <ul>
$(":button")-select all button element and inpur elements of type="button"
$("tr:even")-selects all even <tr> elements
$("tr:odd")-selects all odd <tr> elements

jQuery is tailor-made to respond to events in an HTML page.

DOM events:

click
dblclick
mouseenter
mouseleave
keypress
keydown
keyup
submit
change
focus
blur
load
resize
scroll
unload

we can pass multiple events on same element

example

$("p").on({

   mouseenter:function(){

   },
   mouseleave:fuction(){
    
   }
})

Jquery Effects 
hide
Show
Toggle
fadeIn
fadeOut
fadeToggle
fadeTo
slideUp
slideDown
slideToggle

JQuery animations

Syntax: $(selector).animate({params},speed,callback);

JQuery stop animations
stop() method is used

Syntax : $(selector).stop(stopAll,goToEnd);

jQuery callback :

callback function is executed after the current effect is 100% finished.

JQuery Chaining

here using chaining, you can chain together action/Methods.
chining allow to run multiple events on same statement.

JQuery - Get content and attributes

JQuery contain powerful methods for chaining and manipulating HTML elements and attributes.

JQuery DOM manipulation

One very important part of JQuery is Possibility to manipulate to DOM

DOM defines a standard for accessing HTML and XML document

DOM stands for Document Object Model


GET Content - text(), html() and val()

text() - sets or return the text content of selected elements
html() - sets or rutruns the content of selected elements (including HTML markup)
val() - sets or returns the value of form fields

SET content - text(), html() and val()

same as the Get Content

JQuery - add elements

* Add new HTML Content

we will look at four jQuery method that are used to add new Content:

1.append()-Inserts content at the end of the selected elements

here the content is added after the element
example is 

the ajitkumar
after clicking the button
The ajitkumar vaghela

2.prepend()-Inserts content at the beginning of the selected elements

here the text or content is added before the elements
example is

ajitkumar vishnubhai
after clicking on the button
Vaghela ajitkumar vishnubhai

3.after()-inserts contents after the selected elements


here the text is added after the line 
example is

ajitkumar
after clicking on the button

ajitkumar
hardikvaghela

4.before()-inserts content before the selected elements

here the text is added before the line 
example is

ajitkumar
after clicking on the button 

hardikvaghela
ajitkumar


append and prepend is inline element
after and before is block level element


both can take infinite nubmer of elements as parameters


jquery - Remove elements

To remove elements and content, ther are mainly two jQuery Methods:

1.remove()-Removes the selected element (and its child elements)
2.empty()-Removes the child elements from the selcted element


here the remove function remove whole element
where empty function remove the content or child of the selcted elements

JQuery - Get and Set CSS Classes

JQuery Manipulating CSS
JQuery has several methods for CSS manipulation. We will look at the following methods:

1.addClass()-Adds one or more classes to the selcted elements
2.removeclass()-Removes one or more classes from the selected elements
3.toggleClass()-Toggles between adding/removing classes from the selcted elements
4.css() - Sets or return the style attributes

JQuery -css() Methods

the css() method sets or returns one or more style properties for the selected elements

here in the css() method 
css({"color":"red","font-size":"30px"})


JQuery Dimension Methods:
JQuery has several important methods for working with dimensions:

1.width()
2.height()
3.innerWidth()
4.innerHeight()
here we add padding,border but not margin to the size of height and width
5.outerWidth()
6.outerHeight()
here we add padding,margin or border to the size of height and width 

the width() method sets or return the width of an element (excluding padding, border and margin)
the height() method sets or returns the height of an element (excluding padding,border and margin)

JQuery Traversing

In JQuery traversing, which means "move through" are used to "find" HTML elements based on their relation to other elements.startwith one selection and move
through that selection untill you reach the elements you desire.

there are mainly three method are used 

parent()
parents()
parentsUntill()

The parent() method returns the direct parent element of the selected element.
This method only traverse a single level up the DOM tree.

The parents() method returns all ancestor elements of the selected element,all the way up the documents's root
element(<html>)

The parentsUntil() method returns all ancestor elements between two given arguments.

JQuery Traversing - Descendats

With JQuery you can traverse down the DOM tree to find descendats of an element.

a descendant is child,Grandchild,Great-grandchild and so on.

traversing Down the DOM tree

Two useful JQuery method for traversing down the DOM tree are:

children()
find()

The children() method returns all direct childeren of the selcted element.
this method only traverse a single level down the DOM tree.

you can also use an optional parameter to filter the search for children.

example like

$(div).childer("p.first");

The find() method returns descendant elements of the selcted element, all the way down last descendant.

find() method returns all element that are descendatns of selcted elements

JQuery Traversing - Siblings

with JQuery you can traverse sideways in DOm tree to find sibling of an element.

sibling share the same parent.

there are many useful JQuery method for traversing sideways in the DOM tree:

siblings()
next()
nextAll()
nextUntill()
prev()
prevAll()
prevUntill()

The siblings() method returns all sibling elements of the selected element.

you can also use an optional parameter to filter the search for siblings.

the next() method return the next sibling element of the selcted element.

The nextAll() method returns all next sibling elements of the selcted element.

The nexgtUntill() method returns all next sibling elements between two given argument.

the same as prev(), prevAll() and prevUntill() method work just like the method above but with

JQuery Traversing - Filtering

The first() ,last() , eq(), filter() and not() methods

The most basic filtering methods are first(),last() and eq(), which allow you to selct a specific element based on its position
in a group of elements.

other filtering methods, like filter() and not() allow you to select elements that match or do not match, a certain criteria.
first() method return the first element of the specified elements.

last() method return the last element of the specified elements.

eq() method returns an element with a specific index number of the selected elements.
The index start at 0, so the first element index is one

The filter() method lets you specify a citeria. Elements that do not match the citeria are 
removed from the selction, and those that match will be returned.

JQuery not() method returns all elements that do not match the criteria

The not method is opposite of filter().


















