
<---------------------------AJAX------------------------------------------------>

ajax is the art of exchanging data with a server, and updating parts of a web page-without reloading the whole page.

what is AJAX?

AJAX = Asynchronous Javascript and XML

In short; AJAX is about loading data in background and display it on the webpage,without reloading whole page.

examples of applications using AJAX : Gmail, Google Maps, Youtube, and Facebook tabs.

JQuery provides several methods for AjAX functionality.

With JQuery AJAX methods, you can request text,HTML,XML, or JSON from the remote server using HTTP GET and HTTP Post 0 and you can load the exteranl data directly
into the selcted HTML elemnts of you web page!

JQuery load method

The JQuery load() method is a simple, but powerful AJAX method.
The load() method load data from a server and puts the returned data into the selected element.

Syntax:

$(selector).load(URL,data,callback);

The required URL parameter specifies the URL you wish to load.

The optional data parameter specifies a set of Querystring key/value pairs to send along with the request.

the Optional callback parameter is the name of a function to be executed after the load() method is completed.

The optional callback parameter specifies a callback function to run when the load() 
method is completed. The callback function can have different parameters:

responseTxt - contains the resulting content if the call succeeds
statusTxt - contains the status of the call
xhr -contains the XMLHttpRequest object

The JQuery get() and post() methods are used to request data from the server with an HTTP GET or POST request.

HTTP Request: GET vs. POST

Two commonly used methods for request-response between a client ans server are:
GET and POST.

GET - Request data from a specified resource
POST - Submits data to be processed to a specified resource

GET is basically used for just getting (retriving) some data from the server. 
NOTE : The GET method may return cached data.
POST can also be used to get some data from the server.
NOTE : The POST method NEVER caches data

JQuery $.get() method

The $.get() method request data from the server with an HTTP GET request.

Syntax:

$.get(URL,callback);


